Europe a crowded continent where urban
sprawl and development has pushed one
Wildcat to the very edge of survival
the Iberian lynx is one of the rarest
wild cats in the world
[Music]
it was once found throughout Spain
Portugal and southern France with a
population numbering many thousands
but as roads farms and settlements
started to carve up the land
the Lynx is natural shrubland habitat
began to disappear
[Music]
today only a tiny population clings on
in southern Spain which is where a crew
from the BBC series seven world's one
planet travelled to try and capture
footage of this elusive animal we are
camera traps today the hopes that we get
links coming past in this you just think
it's going to be tucked away in a remote
corner that people haven't touched for
years is so weird
to be out here next to a motorway
looking for the last blinks in the world
when you see a motorway you think cars
and lorries you did not think endangered
species these rules are so dangerous so
there are using these underpasses
these drain systems that go under the
road the links are attracted to this
busy area by the presence of another
species
Rather's love with so age scrubland
which you get next to the highways and
when you've got to pray you'll get the
predator rabbits are critical for the
Lynx is survival they form around 80% of
their diet but humans consider rabbits
our pest species and in the last century
diseases deliberately introduced to
control their numbers wiped out 95% of
Spain's rabbit population
the rapid loss of both their main source
of food and their habitat hit the
Iberian lynx hard by 2002 there were
fewer than 100 individuals left in the
wild
desperate intervention was needed
[Music]
today human activities are focused on
saving the species
[Music]
a conservation program has been
successfully breeding captive link since
up to 40 a year are now released to help
boost links numbers in the wild
and after each release a team of
researchers and scientists continue to
monitor their health and well-being to
ensure they have enough food and
suitable habitat to survive
[Music]
these conservation efforts have had a
huge impact we start in the first years
of this century with less than 100
individuals and now we have near 600 so
I'm absolutely positive about the filter
of the links with their numbers on the
rise links are now being released into
more areas of truly wild habitat in
Spain and Portugal and as the footage
from the camera track shows even in this
most unlikely of places the Lynx have
found a way to survive we need to make
some changes we need to start thinking
about how we can help things and this
project the release of the legacy shows
you that that can't happen just if
everybody gets behind it it slowly and
surely these wonderful links can come
back
[Music]
you